The qualities of the rich: 10 things that self-made millionaires have in common

By Steven Siebold

When most people talk about acquiring wealth, money is usually the main focus of the conversation. How can I save more money? How can I spend less money? How can I better manage the money I have?

While all of these things are certainly important points for consideration, the truth is that becoming rich has a lot less to do with money than most people realise.

I’ve interviewed millionaires all over the world, and what you might be surprised to know is that most of them aren’t as money focused as you would expect. Sure, it’s important and they think about it, but when it comes to the success they have had, they talk more about things like mindset, attitude, vision, belief, self-growth, confidence and continued learning. The bottom line: getting rich is not all about money.

More specifically, here are 10 things self-made millionaires focus their energy on that makes them successful:

You need to be able to see the future long before it arrives. In other words, you have to know what you want, why you want it and what you’re willing to do to get it. Don’t just take each day as it comes. Instead, have a plan. Being visionary keeps you focused on where you’re going and eliminates procrastination in performance and hesitation in decision-making.
They compartmentalise their emotions

Your ability to control your emotions when it counts will play a major role in your success. Strong feelings of anger, jealously, exuberance, despair and others have the power to interfere with your ability to think clearly and make good decisions. They key to control is placing your emotions in psychological compartments, which means blocking them out temporarily so you can focus on the core of what’s being said or done so you can respond appropriately.

They simplify everything

Life is complex. People are complex. The world is complex. Your job is to simplify everything you can and focus on what’s important. Decide what you want, concentrate on it to the exclusion of (almost) everything else, and embrace the challenge of attaining it. If you looked at a car engine as a whole it may seem complicated. Break it up one part at a time and it’s simple. The point is everything can be broken down to its root cause, and that makes every problem easier to solve.

They associate with winners

The world consists of two groups: the winners and the wannabees. The winners get what they want out of life. The wannabees sit around wondering how winners did it. It’s crucial that you associate with winners who are actively pursing their goals and dreams. It doesn’t mean they have to be successful, it just means they have to be pursuing success the way all champions do: with determination, courage and a world-class work ethic.

They develop courage

Staking your own claim requires courage. Some people will be as supportive as you claw your way upward, while others will laugh and criticise your audacious aspirations. Sometimes extraordinary success requires original thinking, behaviour and actions. Sometimes this means sacrificing popularity to make it. Courage is being scared to death and facing the unknown yet saddling up anyway.

They become a learning machine

Learning and growing are the essence of the good life. It means you are always moving forward and never looking back. The centrepiece of your education should be reading, listening, watching educational programming, attending personal and professional development seminars and workshops, studying with mentors, travelling the world, and becoming a student observer of success, life and living.

They are at peace with themselves

Everyone makes mistakes. The key is learning to forgive and make peace with yourself. You must be your own best friend, and that means letting go of any self-doubts, fears or even hatred you may be harboring. Avoid doing things that risk the reputation you have with yourself, and never act in a manner that breaches your integrity or your values. Tell yourself that no matter what happens in life, you can handle it.

They focus on results

There’s an old saying: “It’s not if you win or lose, it’s how you play the game.” This saying has real wisdom in amateur sports, but in the real world, winning is the key to getting what you want. Always play fair, but to reap the rewards you must secure the victory. Become known as a “results machine.” Make a decision today to produce results wherever you go, however you can.

They are congruent

Congruence between your words and actions is critical to your success. You must do what you say you’re going to do. Remember, it’s easier to mouth off about something than it is to actually make it happen. The average person bolsters their ego through big talk but takes little action to support their words. Always do everything you’ll say you’ll do, and that includes the little things.
They are curious

Curiosity is one of the little-known traits of successful people, and the reason is simple: The more curiosity you exhibit, the more you can learn. Express your curiosity by asking questions, actively listening and asking follow up questions. Whatever you learn from other people can guide you toward success or it can be a cautionary tale. Either way, you will learn and grow.

This story first appeared in Business Insider. Read it here or follow BusinessInsider Australia on Facebook.

https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/business/markets/the-ten-qualities-that-self-made-millionaires-share-20180817-p4zy1x.html