I'm young, I voted Liberal and I am not a bigot

By AC Griffiths

On Sunday morning, many Australians found themselves staring into their morning coffee wondering at what point the Labor Party lost the unlosable election. Betting agencies had paid in favour of a Labor win days in advance; even the Liberal leader called the election win a miracle.

I am a young, female, Victorian, inner city dweller, but I made the decision to give my vote to the Liberal Party, as I have since the 2013 election, the first time I voted. However, the elation I experienced on Sunday morning over the Liberal win was short-lived.

According to social media, I: am scared, uneducated, a bigot, should be ashamed, have condemned this planet to burn, pathetic, not a feminist, probably hate gays, hate minorities, and probably want to stop women having access to abortions.

Wandering around the streets of Melbourne on this unseasonably warm Sunday, I felt many negative emotions but no regret about the ballot I cast. Instead, I was sad that many people saw Liberal voters as a negative influence on this country.

I would like our nation to take a collective deep breath and hear me out, please. I would like to remind Australians of policies and laws that the "right" have enacted. In hope it might quell the fear experienced in the present.

The political triumphs listed below are not in order of importance or year, but rather a reflection of how progressive the Australian conservative political party has been and can be.

The United Australia Party under Herbert Payne made voting compulsory; Australia is among only a handful of nations where voting is mandatory.

Under the Menzies administration in 1962, voting rights were extended to Indigenous Australians. Granted this was horribly late, but that was an indictment on the nation not the conservative party.

Harold Holt deserves a notable mention; in 1967 he held a referendum on the right for Indigenous Australians to be counted in the census. The Liberal Party was also the first political party to have an Indigenous person in Parliament. Neville Bonner joined the Senate and served in the Liberal Party for 12 years.

Malcolm Fraser established SBS, accepted Vietnamese refugees after the war and strongly opposed apartheid.
Loading

This may be a little known fact but John Gorton introduced a parliamentary motion from the Opposition supporting the legalisation of same-gender sexual relations. John Howard enacted reform on guns.

Malcolm Turnbull as leader of the Liberal Party passed laws legalising gay marriage. Many will say there was an issue with the process but, as it stands, the "right" side of government passed the bill on same-sex marriage not the "left".

The Australian "right" has passed nation-changing laws that were not part of its mandate as a conservative party. It did so because the Liberal and Nationals coalition understands what is right for Australia. On countless occasions the "right" of Australia has followed a moral compass and passed legislation more progressive then the "left" in many other countries.
Liberal prime minister Malcolm Fraser welcomed Vietnamese refugees into Australia.

Liberal prime minister Malcolm Fraser welcomed Vietnamese refugees into Australia. Credit:The Age

To every Greens or Labor or other minor party supporter who feels saddened or disenfranchised by the Saturday election, these facts are for you. We who voted for the Coalition did not vote out of fear, nor naivety, bigotry or anger. Rather, we voted with our hearts for a party that will do the right thing on social issues, but which can also lead a country through a challenging time economically.

Labor supporters, I am sorry you were left blindsided and heartbroken. In time you will heal and I am sure rally around your new leader. But, for now, gain heart from these facts because the members of the Coalition are not monsters, rather they are Australia's preference for a third term.

AC Griffiths is a Melbourne voter.

https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/federal-election-2019/i-m-young-i-voted-liberal-and-i-am-not-a-bigot-20190519-p51p34.html