Lawmaker in Wyoming argues Jesus’ Crucifixion justifies capital punishment

There have been many arguments made in defense of the death penalty, but a conservative African American lawmaker in Wyoming, who helped defeat a bill to repeal capital punishment, apparently stretches Christian doctrine to justify her belief.

According to the Casper Star-Tribune, Republican State Sen. Lynn Hutchings, believes that since Jesus Christ was crucified by the state as a criminal, the Christian faith was arguably founded on the death penalty.

READ MORE: Supreme Court denies Ark. judge’s call to reverse barring from death penalty cases

“The greatest man who ever lived died via the death penalty for you and me,” Hutchings, told the newspaper. “I’m grateful to him for our future hope because of this. Governments were instituted to execute justice. If it wasn’t for Jesus dying via the death penalty, we would all have no hope.”

While the argument is certainly unorthodox, technically, the New Testament does state that Jesus was arrested by Roman authorities then tried and sentenced to death by Pontius Pilate, the Roman prefect for the province of Judea. Thanks in part to Hutchings impassioned plea, Wyoming’s state Senate voted down a bill to abolish the death penalty. The final vote come down to 12 in favor and 18 against.

Although Hutchings got her way, some of her fellow state senators took issue with the use of Jesus to justify capital punishment.

“Regardless of my personal thoughts — my religion doesn’t believe in the right to kill people — that’s not enough for me,” pushed back Casper Sen. Bill Landen, who voted for the measure.

Wyoming has not executed a prisoner since 1992.

This is not the first time Hutchings has run into controversy. Earlier this month, during a meeting with Cheyenne LGBTQ students at the state capitol, she was accused of equating homosexuality with bestiality and pedophilia, the Star-Tribune reported. She denied making the statement, explaining that what she did say to them did not come across the way she meant.

“It is unfortunate, but I now recognize, that my attempts at meaningful dialogue on this specific issue did not come across as I intended,” Hutchings said in a statement. “I believe I treated these students kindly. I want to make it clear that my conversation was not intended to demean these students. I at no time compared homosexuality with bestiality or pedophilia. That never happened.”

The LGBTQ advocacy group Wyoming Equality lodged a complaint against her and stood by it despite Hutchings’ statement.


https://thegrio.com/2019/02/20/lynn-hutchings-wyoming-capital-punishment-christianity/